---
title: 'Maintainers Minutes: August 2024'
subtitle: 'Keeping you informed of the latest maintainers discussions'
pubDate: 2024-08-07T12:00:00+02:00
embedHeaderImage: true
authors:
    - 'jfy133'
    - 'FriederikeHanssen'
label:
    - 'maintainers'
---

The 'Maintainers Minutes' aims to further give insight into the workings of the [nf-core maintainers team](/governance#maintainers)
by providing brief summaries of the monthly team meetings.

## Review of action points from last time

We got about half way through our action points from last time.

Slack channels were created for the new working groups:
    - #wg-meta-pipelines
    - #wg-modules-update
    - #wg-test-data-task-force

Please join if you want to be involved in one of those.

## More (or less) testing

JÃºlia encountered several failing tests on nf-core/crisprseq with conda and singularity. This was caused by tests only running
on docker. Moving forward we agreed that at least some tests should also be run
with `singularity` and `conda`.

We discussed several ideas. On the one hand we'd like to make sure everything works at all times, on the other hand running tons of tests
makes development slow, costs money, and is not great for the planet ðŸŒ³. As a compromise, we agreed on the following:
    - Singularity & conda tests are run on PR to master
        - Make singularity required
        - Conda optional opt-out
    - Add `workflow dispatch` button for easier manual testing

## Nf-test best practices

Nicolas brought up that snapshots should be readable to quickly determine that they do what they should. Since the order of snapshots in the `.snap` file
does not correspond to the order they are defined in the test file, having one snapshot per file in the same test
scrambles the entries all over the place.

Nicolas will make updates to the guidelines that all assertions should go into a single snapshot per test.

## Bulk updates of modules

JÃºlia is coordinating the bulk update of modules in https://github.com/nf-core/modules/issues/5828 (join #wg-modules-update to stay tuned)

This includes:
    - meta.yml accounting for the channel structure (https://github.com/nf-core/modules/pull/5867)
    - subworkflows
    - bio.tools identifiers
    - edam ontologies for all input/output files
    - removing defaults from conda channel
    - adding lock files
    - adding version topic channels
    - adding lint for stub tests for all modules


### Topic channels for `version`

In addition, we discussed how to incorporate the topics version channels. Edmund created a [POC](https://github.com/nf-core/nascent/pull/150) showing that
it is possible to handle topic and non-topic version channels together.
This also requires a pipeline update by all developers, pinning a recent nextflow version, and adding the `preview` flag.
It was concluded that this should be a hackathon task.

## Obligatory argument

After settling somewhat on how we want to name subworkflows in the previous meeting, we now discussed the meta.yml restructuring for subworkflows.
The meta.yml currently only includes the channel name. It is now being expanded to match the channel construct, like: "meta, bam, bai" (not just files).
We also argued over the overall channel names.


## Versioning of modules guidelines

Arthur Gymer suggested that the module guidelines should be versioned.
Everyone think it's a good idea and we discussed how to best approach this since the guidelines are listed on the website, linting is linked to nf-core/tools versions
and not everything can/is linted for at the moment.

Some ideas included linking the docs with the tools version and date stamp the docs, have dev docs version to account for incremental updates. We agreed that linting against the tools dev version may cause
problems with changes during the developemt.
One of the major technical challenges we discussed were how to best account for various doc versions on the website with the additional complication the the guidelines page is planned to be split up (which James finds ðŸ¤¢)
Matthias will think about a few ways on how this could be tackled.

## Next time

Mahesh figured out a cool way to handle args in nfjtests without the `nextflow.config` copying issue:  https://nfcore.slack.com/archives/C049MBCEW06/p1721042240473589
We'll discuss this in detail next time.


\- :heart: from your #maintainers team!
